Sheffield Rules
* The first written set of laws were produced at the clubs first annual general meeting on 21 October 1858. The original draft was amended at the same meeting to produce the following set of rules for the 1858–59 season.[12]
1 The kick off from the middle must be a place kick.
2 Kick out must not be more than 25 yards [23 m] out of goal.
3 A fair catch is a catch from any player provided the ball has not touched the ground or has not been thrown from touch and is entitled to a free-kick.
4 Charging is fair in case of a place kick (with the exception of a kick off as soon as a player offers to kick) but he may always draw back unless he has actually touched the ball with his foot.
5 Pushing with the hands is allowed but no hacking or tripping up is fair under any circumstances whatever.
6 No player may be held or pulled over.
7 It is not lawful to take the ball off the ground (except in touch) for any purpose whatever.
8 The ball may be pushed or hit with the hand, but holding the ball except in the case of a free kick is altogether disallowed.
9 A goal must be kicked but not from touch nor by a free kick from a catch.
10 A ball in touch is dead, consequently the side that touches it down must bring it to the edge of the touch and throw it straight out from touch.
11 Each player must provide himself with a red and dark blue flannel cap, one colour to be worn by each side.

31 January 1860
#8 -> Holding the ball (except in the case of a free kick) or knocking or pushing it on is altogether disallowed

* In 1861 rouges were introduced into the code.[23] The idea was borrowed from Eton and involved a 4 yards (3.7 m) goal (as opposed to 8 yards (7.3 m) used previously). There were also rouge flags placed an additional 4 yards (3.7 m) each side of the goal. If the ball was kicked between the rouge flags and subsequently touched down the team scored a rouge. If the score was tied at the end of the game then rouges could be used to decide the winner. A version of the arrangement remains in Australian Rules Football.[24]


1862 rulebook had 17 rules.

* The offside rule was introduced to Sheffield Rules in 1863.[28] Their version only required one member of the opposition between a player and the opposing goal to remain on side. Despite this the rule was only used sporadically in actual play

[1866] The FA introduced an 8 feet (2.4 m) cross bar used by Sheffield in the same year only for Sheffield to then decide to raise it to 9 feet (2.7 m).[32] The fair catch was also dropped by Sheffield.[33] This completed the transition to a purely kicking game.



cf http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Laws_of_the_Game_(association_football)

Football Association Rules


As published by Bell's Life in London, Dec. 5, 1863

The Football Association Laws of 1863 as published in Bell's Life in London for approval on 5 December 1863:

The maximum length of the ground shall be 200 yards (183 m), the maximum breadth shall be 100 yards (91 m), the length and breadth shall be marked off with flags; and the goal shall be defined by two upright posts, eight yards (7.3 m) apart, without any tape or bar across them.
A toss for goals shall take place, and the game shall be commenced by a place kick from the centre of the ground by the side losing the toss for goals; the other side shall not approach within 10 yards (9.1 m) of the ball until it is kicked off.
After a goal is won, the losing side shall be entitled to kick off, and the two sides shall change goals after each goal is won.
A goal shall be won when the ball passes between the goal-posts or over the space between the goal-posts (at whatever height), not being thrown, knocked on, or carried.
When the ball is in touch, the first player who touches it shall throw it from the point on the boundary line where it left the ground in a direction at right angles with the boundary line, and the ball shall not be in play until it has touched the ground.
When a player has kicked the ball, any one of the same side who is nearer to the opponent's goal line is out of play, and may not touch the ball himself, nor in any way whatever prevent any other player from doing so, until he is in play; but no player is out of play when the ball is kicked off from behind the goal line.
In case the ball goes behind the goal line, if a player on the side to whom the goal belongs first touches the ball, one of his side shall be entitled to a free kick from the goal line at the point opposite the place where the ball shall be touched. If a player of the opposite side first touches the ball, one of his side shall be entitled to a free kick at the goal only from a point 15 yards (14 m) outside the goal line, opposite the place where the ball is touched, the opposing side standing within their goal line until he has had his kick.
If a player makes a fair catch, he shall be entitled to a free kick, providing he claims it by making a mark with his heel at once; and in order to take such kick he may go back as far as he pleases, and no player on the opposite side shall advance beyond his mark until he has kicked.
No player shall run with the ball.
Neither tripping nor hacking shall be allowed, and no player shall use his hands to hold or push his adversary.
A player shall not be allowed to throw the ball or pass it to another with his hands.
No player shall be allowed to take the ball from the ground with his hands under any pretence whatever while it is in play.
No player shall be allowed to wear projecting nails, iron plates, or gutta-percha[3] on the soles or heels of his boots.

Current: 
Law 1: The Field of Play
Law 2: The Ball
Law 3: The Number of Players
Law 4: The Players' Equipment
Law 5: The Referee
Law 6: The Assistant Referees
Law 7: The Duration of the Match
Law 8: The Start and Restart of Play
Law 9: The Ball In and Out of Play
Law 10: The Method of Scoring
Law 11: Offside
Law 12: Fouls and Misconduct
Law 13: Free kicks (direct and indirect)
Law 14: The Penalty Kick
Law 15: The Throw-In
Law 16: The Goal Kick
Law 17: Corner kick

